# example projects
 
This is a simple collection of projects that demonstrate some of the skills I possess that are relevant to data science: R and Python programming, research design and experimental design, data analysis and classification, LaTeX, and Tableau. Below is a description of each project file, but I will briefly explain for a quick look:

(1) For a fully fleshed out paper that uses machine learning methods and data visualization, check incivility_article.pdf. \\
(2) For an example of an experimental design, check the file `experiment_design_paper.pdf` within the `experimental_design_paper` folder.
(3) For an example of using tableau to visualize twitter data, look at `tableau_clinton_trump_maps.pdf`.
(4) For an example of code interacting with APIs, check out `google_vision_classification.py`.
(5) For an example of a fairly silly but fun project that uses the Twitter API, a bit of simple randomization in Python, and scheduled tasks using launchctl, check out `random_salad.py` and its accompanying Twitter Bot, `@randomsaladboi`.

# incivility-article.pdf

This pdf contains an academic article that is currently under review. It was co-authored with Pablo Barberá, a professor I worked under at USC. The article aimed to classify incivility on public facebook pages to understand the dynamics of how incivility operates on online public forums. We used figure-eight to classify a large sample of comments using human coders. We then classified the comments using xgboost, an ensemble decision tree classifier trained using a unigram and bigram-encoded bag-of-words approach and 100-dimensional word2vec embeddings, taking the average comment embedding as features. We then used 5-fold cross-validation to identify in-sample performance maximizing features and tested the model on a 20% sample of training set comments left out. In addition to this machine learning-based classifier, we used dictionary methods enhanced by query expansion using word embeddings to manually identify uncivil words using substantive domain knowledge.

We find that the majority of incivility is generated by a minority of users, and that people are more likely to respond to uncivil comments, creating a cycle of incivility that may be susceptible to intervention.

# experimental_design_paper

This is a research design paper I wrote early on in my PhD. It demonstrates a strong understanding of experimental design and how experiments should be set up, from theory to design to expected observable implications. Broadly, the topic of the experiment is in using rhetorical appeals to increase the likelihood of a Member of Congress responding to constituent communication. I designed an experiment to test the effect of threatening not to vote for a Member of Congress in constituency contact on responsiveness and response quality from Members of Congress. The experiment was never actually conducted due to financial constraints, but I believe it remains a strong and simple experimental design. I included the necessary tex/code files necessary to reproduce the paper, but the file `experiment_design_paper.pdf` is likely the main point of interest, as it contains the entire design.

# google_vision_classification.py

This code takes a folder of images (and only images), and submits the images to the Google Vision API to label the images with 3 parameters: (1) a number of labels describing things contained in the image, (2) the likely emotion on the face of individuals in the image, and (3) performs optical character recognition to put in text form the images that actually contained text. The code outputs 3 CSVs containing the name of the image file annotated/labeled by the vision API and whatever applicable labels the google vision API could come up with. In essence, the code takes one folder full of images and outputs 3 csvs containing the name of those images and the accompanying labels from the API.

# tableau_clinton_trump_maps.pdf

This is a brief research finding to demonstrate some basic Tableau visualizations. The research itself shows differences in newspaper coverage of presidential candidate tweets during the 2016 general election. I tracked tweets made by Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton for several months using the Twitter API, and then tracked those tweets to a sample of newspaper articles to make some descriptive findings about media coverage of candidate twitter usage. The simple conclusion is that newspapers wrote more about Donald Trump's tweets and quoted his tweets at rates considerably higher than Clinton's, despite the fact that Clinton actually tweeted more than Trump.

# random_salad.py and accompanying random salad twitterbot

This is a very silly project that I made for my friend and I, who frequented a restaurant called "Simply Salad" for lunch. Simply Salad offered full customizations of salads, and my friend was determined to try as many combinations of salad as possible. He used a random number generator app on his phone to pick his ingredients. Seeing that this was a waste of time and that the process could be streamlined, I decided to make a twitter bot that would randomly generate salads and tweet out the random salads right before lunch and dinner. That random salad generator can be found at https://twitter.com/randomsaladboi. The salads are generally gross, but the fun is real.



